feat: new subcommand for sorting VCF files via one or multiple Python expressions (#197)
vembrane/vembrane: README.md

Internally for each vcf record the overlapping regions of the annotation file are determined and stored in `DATA`. The expression may then access the `DATA` object and its columns by the columns names to generate a single or multiple values of cardinality `number` of type `type`. These values are stored in the new annotation entry under the name `vcf_name` and with header description `description`.

## `vembrane sort`

The `sort` subcommand allows to sort VCF/BCF files via keys defined as Python expressions.
The Python expressions are analogous to expressions in other vembrane commands.
This feature loads the entire VCF file into memory in order to maximize performance.
It is thus meant to sort small, already filtered VCF files, e.g. for **prioritizing records for the human eye**.
For large VCF files, the only relevant sorting is usually by position, which is better done with e.g. bcftools (and usually the sorting that variant callers output).

> 

Reviewer: Mention the default sort order (ascending?)

### Usage

```
usage: vembrane sort [-h] [--output OUTPUT] [--output-fmt {vcf,bcf,uncompressed-bcf}] [--annotation-key FIELDNAME] [--aux NAME=PATH] [--ontology PATH]
                     [--overwrite-number-info FIELD=NUMBER] [--overwrite-number-format FIELD=NUMBER] [--backend {cyvcf2,pysam}]
                     [vcf] sort_key [sort_key ...]

positional arguments:
  vcf                   The VCF/BCF file containing the variants. If not specified, reads from STDIN.

>   sort_key              Python expressions returning orderable values to sort the VCF records by (ascending, smallest values coming first).

Reviewer: expressions → expression
+ mention tuple style / comma separation?

                        If multiple expressions are provided, they are prioritized from left to right with lowest priority on the right.

>                         NA/NaN values are sorted to the end.

Author: Good point. Maybe better to rather always require the filepath or - to be specified.

>                         NA/NaN values are sorted to the end.

Author: Further thought about the sort_key. Maybe it is indeed better to model it in the same way as the column expressions for the table subcommand. In the end, one has to type less letters, and since we will support the subcommand in a wrapper for Snakemake, that one will also be easy to use for people with sort keys provided as list given to params.

>                         NA/NaN values are sorted to the end.

Author: ```
cat example.vcf | vembrane sort '-POS, len(REF)' 
```
And this will also always work, regardless of whether the user omits - or has it.

> options:

Reviewer: Do we want to include an option for choosing between ascending / descending?

  --output-fmt {vcf,bcf,uncompressed-bcf}, -O {vcf,bcf,uncompressed-bcf}
                        Output format.
  --annotation-key FIELDNAME, -k FIELDNAME
                        The INFO key for the annotation field. This defaults to 'ANN', but tools might use other field names. For example, default VEP annotations can be
                        parsed by setting 'CSQ' here.
  --aux NAME=PATH, -a NAME=PATH
                        Path to an auxiliary file containing a set of symbols
  --ontology PATH       Path to an ontology in OBO format. May be compressed with gzip, bzip2 and xz. Defaults to built-in ontology (from sequenceontology.org).
  --overwrite-number-info FIELD=NUMBER
                        Overwrite the number specification for INFO fields given in the VCF header. Example: `--overwrite-number cosmic_CNT=.`
  --overwrite-number-format FIELD=NUMBER
                        Overwrite the number specification for FORMAT fields given in the VCF header. Example: `--overwrite-number-format DP=2`
  --backend {cyvcf2,pysam}, -b {cyvcf2,pysam}
                        Set the backend library.
```

### Example

> The following command sorts by gnomad_AF (ascending) and REVEL score (descending).
> Thereby the gnomad allele frequencies are quantized in order to group them into 10 bins.

Reviewer: I tried making it clear that it's _records_ that get sorted, not individual values or something else. Feel free to adapt as you like
```suggestion
The following command sorts records first by `gnomad_AF` (binned and ascending), and then by `REVEL` score (descending).
The descending sort is achieved by negating the `REVEL` value (`-ANN['REVEL']`) in the key expression.
```

Reviewer: Also, how do I invert (i.e. toggle between ascending/descending) non number types? I assume `-"string"` and `-FALSE` will not work?
(→ also add an example for these cases)

```bash

> vembrane sort calls.vcf "round(ANN['gnomad_AF'], 1)" "-ANN['REVEL']" > prioritized.vcf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vembrane sort calls.vcf 'round(ANN["gnomad_AF"], 1), -ANN["REVEL"]' > prioritized.vcf
```
